they crawl from underground
and terrify the masses they create chaos
devour
entire villages giant worms
yeah we've all seen stuff like this in
the movies but that's not quite how we
go down in real life
well hypothetical real life say you're a
farmer in this world
you own vast fertile fields with rows
and rows of vegetables and some fruit
trees
your friends are coming over today and
you're all going four wheel riding in
the valley near your farm
you're having a great time and don't
even notice the beautiful blue sky
disappear behind dark gray clouds the
valley gets swallowed by a blanket of
darkness
off in the distance you hear rain
falling you lift your head toward the
sky
and at that moment a single drop falls
on your cheek
you all look at each other in a moment
of silence dread
filling your eyes you book it out of
their full speed toward the farm
the rain is heavy now behind you hear a
sound like a drilling rig
grinding through the ground the earth
starts to shake beneath
off to the distance you see a sinkhole
forming
if you've stayed in that place for even
a minute longer you
would have fallen into the abyss but the
sinkhole isn't the worst by far
a gargantuan worm appears the size of a
jet airplane
it wiggles its way out of the ground and
crawls on the wet grass
you and your friends drive up high on a
hill and look
down at an incredible picture huge
wet worms are crawling and wriggling all
over the green valley
some are the size of the jet others no
bigger than a bus
there are also small worms about the
size of an anaconda
small all of them surface and wriggle in
different directions
by now of course you're used to it this
is the world you live in
these slimy behemoths always come out
when it rains
ordinary earthworms don't have tons of
razor-sharp teeth like we see in movies
if a megaworm devours you at least it
wouldn't chew you into a million pieces
they simply push food into their stomach
digest it
and extract useful substances plus
you're not even on the menu
lucky you normal-sized worms feed on
decaying organic matter
rotting leaves tree roots the usual
dishes
the worm eats this and gets a charge of
vitamins from it
the best nutrients are hidden deep
underground the further down you go
the richer and more fertile the soil
besides the worms never eat your harvest
they don't feed on living plant tissue
that's why they're perfect assistance
for farmers
worms constantly dig the ground and
leave long tunnels in their wake
these usually teeny tiny tunnels
saturate the soil with
oxygen and make it even richer it's also
easier for plants to establish roots in
this soft broken up soil
yes worms are super handy but
that's the normally small kind
right now up on that hill you're peering
down at goliath-sized worms
and that's a problem the tunnels they
leave behind while sifting through the
dirt
could severely weaken the soil tree
roots would get dislodged
an entire forest might come down too
much air would sink into the ground
there wouldn't be enough humidity in the
soil for these creatures
so they might take to drinking up whole
lakes and ponds
that or their jumbo tunnels would make
bodies of water drain into the
surrounding ground
say just one big enough worm was
crawling under a small
town and disrupting the soil one of the
first signs homeowners would see
is cracks in the basement walls the
foundation would be weakened
and their entire home could eventually
come crashing down
if it didn't just suddenly fall into a
sinkhole in one fell swoop
to avoid this people cultivate the land
around their cities towns and homesteads
with a thick layer of salt this keeps
the worms from crossing that line
they might look terrifying but the
super-sized slimys
are peaceful and don't attack people so
you decide to drive up to them to get a
better look
their bodies are covered in small well
compared to their size
hairs that cling to the ground and help
them move
you drive all over the valley and catch
the little worms
the snake size ones that is you collect
them in a container
for use in your harvest in the future
but you must hurry
because the rain is over and the ground
is drying up which means the worms will
crawl back to where they came from
by the way scientists still don't know
exactly why worms come out when it rains
experts used to think the water floods
their burrows they need to come up so
they don't drown
but worms breathe through their skin not
lungs
and they need moisture to survive an
earthworm can stay alive underwater for
several minutes
now another theory says rain beating
down on the ground
causes it to vibrate worms are highly
sensitive to any fluctuations in their
environment
when it rains they take these vibrations
as other animals are coming up to gobble
them
it sounds paradoxical but to hide they
come up
out of their holes maybe they think it's
a mole or some other underground enemy
approaching
the world has adapted well enough
besides on rainy days and at night
you wouldn't even know you share a world
with colossal earthworms
they're afraid of sunlight worms don't
have eyes
but their skin has receptors that are
sensitive to light and touch
every night the worms may come out but
by morning
there's no trace of them it's not a
year-round problem either
in fall summer and spring they're out
and about
but in winter they go deep underground
where it's warmer and more humid
these big worms are constantly digging
the ground some tunnels are so
deep and wide that people can explore
the labyrinths for days on
end they look like mining shafts and
plenty of companies have already jumped
on using that opportunity
wormholes are used to find minerals
precious metals
and gold miners no longer need drills
the worms do the work for free there are
still risks though
you have to be careful not to meet a
worm in these tunnels you could end up
accidentally going down its throat but
if you have powerful flood lights
you can scare them away now just be glad
you don't live in a world with giant sea
worms for example there's the spaghetti
worm
the earthworm's cousin of the sea it can
divide its body into many
long thin spaghetti-like tentacles a
jumbo-sized one would seem like a giant
squid
or something not even from this planet
it could wrap all those tentacles around
your body and forget about cutting them
off to save yourself
new ones just grow in their place giant
flat worms would be a nightmare on earth
this bizarre and ancient sea dweller
looks like a colorful blanket
rippling through the water they're
actually the first animal to develop a
head and brain
and they're considered the first hunter
on this planet
as soon as their lunch approaches they
wrap themselves all around it
and slurp it up what a way to go
oh and the thought of giant peanut worms
will keep you up all night
it looks like an elephant's trunk and
dozens of small
tentacles protrude from its mouth to
grab its prey
in the real world this worm can be well
over a foot long
imagine if it were a thousand times
bigger
or the horror that is the feather duster
worm
from a distance it looks like a
peacock's tail imagine
swimming in the depths and seeing a
beautiful fan of
feathers the size of your house off in
the distance
but as you get closer you realize their
tentacles
and each tentacle is covered with fine
hairs that can help grab prey
but the worst monster is the spawning
fire worm
this sea creature is bright red like a
flame it has jaws that grab its
unfortunate lunch
if it were huge it would be able to
gobble up whales and sharks
but the worst thing is that this worm is
venomous
the normal ones can cause rash on human
skin i
shudder to think what a giant one could
do to you
all these thoughts flash through your
mind as you peer at the snake sized
worms in your container
and deep in the ocean something's
growing
yeah it might not just be earthworms
that have become
super-sized in this world